
1. Adriana, Andrew and Claire are three freshman at MIT who all live in the same dorm.  After learning about how many blueBike angel points you could earn on weekend nights, the trio decided to hang out together and see how many they could collect. Friday night, the trio met by the Bluebike station at Mass Ave and Amherst. After an hour of biking and walking, the trio ran into two Boston University students at a Boston Commons station who were also out enjoying the night and returning BlueBikes. The two groups hit it off, and started traveling together. After a few hours of laughing and riding around their new city, the new group of five decided to go to Chilacates in Jamaica Plain and cash in some of their BlueBikepoints. For every 1$ in BlueBikes rewards spent at their restaurant, Chilacates had agreed to match with 3$ of credit. Over their feast of tacos, the new friend group made plans to hang out when they reached 100 Bluebike Angel points and received their centential reward--a choice between tickets to the Boston Symphony Orchestra or a Red Socks game.


2. Maria has lived in Roxbury since long before the Bluebike stations were installed throughout the neighborhood. Maria hardly noticed the bikes when they went in, but when her two teenage sons started returning bikes as part of the BlueBike Angels program, she started to think about them. Her eldest son started first, he and his friends would ride around until they had enough points to go see a movie (30 points to cash in for a ticket at Apple Cinema in Cambridge). Pretty soon her younger son was doing it too. At first she was nervous that biking in the city was dangerous, but when her boys convinced her to ride with them one Saturday, she saw just how many bikes were on the road. WIth that many bikes, she noticed that cars started driving more cautiously. Pretty soon her younger son had become a mini-expert on the system---anyone who came by the house would have no chance escaping a whole spiel about how the Bluebike system  worked, the discount programs they have, or how they bike rebalancing point structure. When a neighbor started talking about buying a car so that he could start driving for Uber, it was her younger son who talked to him. Her younger son brought over to his house a Boston Tribune article that calculated that when you compare all the hidden costs of driving for Uber such as vehicle deterioration and cleaning, the money you can make is similar to what you can make rebalancing bikes. But the thing that Maria likes the most about her sons rebalancing BlueBikes is that they have become experts about the different college campuses across Boston. Because so many of the eligible points cluster near BU, MIT's, Harvard, and Northeastern's campus her boys have started spending a lot of time biking and jogging around those campuses. At home they quibble about who has the nicest one and which one has the most "free stuff" like museums and public performances. But in their jesting, she notices that they have increasingly started to say things like "when we are college students."
4.

  