2.4 Algorithms for solving BRP models Accurate solving algorithms are almost impossible to be used as a solution for large-scale BRP, and the associated costs are unacceptable for operators. Therefore, some heuristics or approximation algorithms have been proposed to solve BRP, such as the genetic algorithm (Liu and Pan, 2019), branch-and-cut (Chemla et al., 2013), and neighborhood search (Rainer-Harbach et al., 2013). The tabu search algorithm has a fast convergence speed and is considered very effective in solving routing problems. In recent years, some scholars have proposed an improved tabu search algorithm to solve static BRP. Szeto et al.(2016)proposedaniterativetabusearchheuristicalgorithmtominimizethepunishmentforunmetneeds.Lü etal.(2019)designedatwo-layertabusearchalgorithmto solvestaticBRPbasedonthesupplyanddemand relationship.However,thesestudiesignoredtheenvironmentalimpactsofBRP,therebypreventingusfromusing theiralgorithmsinthisstudy.

Previous studies (Shaheen et al., 2010; Zhang and Mi, 2018) have only highlighted the direct environmental impacts of BSS (i.e., direct emission reduction from replacing private car trips with shared bike travels) yet did not consider the more complex and indirect environmental impacts such as negative (e.g., increase in the number of motor vehicles used for bike rebalancing) and unintended effects (e.g., abandoning surplus bikes) (Frenken and Schor, 2017; Taylor, 2018). Fishman et al. (2014) found that bike sharing reduced motor vehicle use in Melbourne, Australia and in Minneapolis and Washington DC, US, and that the rebalancing of public-use bicycles discouraged additional motor vehicle use in London, UK. However, rebalancing operations may threaten the positive environmental impacts of bike sharing given that these operations are performed by fossil-fuel-based vehicles (Wiersma, 2010). Except for Shui and Szeto (2018) and Wang and Szeto (2018), only few studies have focused on the environmental impacts of the rebalancing operations of bike sharing.