However, for the most part, laws that prohibited drinking in public were exceedingly rare following prohibition. So much so that according to archive research by historian Joe Satran, everytime a law was introduced, the press would tend to describe it as en entirely novel idea (Satran, 2022). 

This all changes however following a landmark supreme court case, Robinson V. California in 1964. The case brought to the supreme court a question about the legality of a California statute that classified drug addiction as a criminal offense. Prior to the decision, most states in the nation had laws making it illegal to be a "common drunkard" (alcoholic) or "vagrant" (homeless). Historian Satran writes about this time period that, "The police arrested hundreds of thousands of people every year for violating these so-called vagrancy and public drunkenness laws, which were at the heart of the police's mission to control urban social disorder. Such laws defined life on Skid Row: Some perennially homeless, alcoholic men spent years of their lives in jail, in 30-day increments, on charges of public drunkenness and vagrancy" (Satran, 2022). It's also not suprising to note that similar to debates about the modern war on drugs, critics of the vagrancy/drunkard laws pointed out that the enforcement of these laws was at the discretion of the state, which led to deep imbalances of enforcement across racial and class lines. 

In the Robinson court case, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the decriminalization advocates and struck down the California statute. Four years later, the court walked the decision back slightly, saying that states could pass laws against public drunkenness, since there is a difference between "appearing drunk in public" and "being an alcoholic." However, the ramification of the Robinson v. California case was that it set off a process that undermined the ability for states to pass laws against "status offenses." In 1971, 35 states would ratify the Uniform Alcoholism Treatment Act which called on states to decriminalize public drunkeness and put the health system (not the police) in charge of inebriated individuals. By the end of the 1970s arrests for public drunkeness dropped by half as compared to the start of the decade. 




Citation: Satran, Joe. "The Secret History Of The War On Public Drinking" Huffington Post, 14 Dec. 2013, https://www.huffpost.com/entry/public-drinking-laws_n_4312523/amp. Accessed 26 April, 2022.
