An excellent example of the challenges of meaningfully communicating information about fire can be found in this rendering of the 2020 Australian brush fires. 

In the first week of January, Anthony Hearsey, a Brisbane based artist created and posted onto  Instagram this 3D Rendering. The visualization pulled data from NASA’s FIRMS (Fire Information Resource Management System) between 05/12/19 - 05/01/20 to show where fires had burned.  The image quickly went viral, including infamously being reposted by Rihanna. At this moment, it looked probable that the Australian wildfires would be one of the biggest story of 2020. As the image spread, that caption changed until eventually inheriting the text, "This is a NASA photograph." Within a few days the image was included in a flurry of media articles warning about misleading maps of the bushfires and the image was flagged by Instagram.  

In a follow up post, Anthony Hearsy acknowledged that "the scale is a little exaggerated due to the render's glow" but insisted that it was faithful to the source data. 

Satellite imaging of fire, the basis of this rendering, comes in two principle forms: reflective and thermal. Reflective images pickup infrared and visible spectrum wavelengths and can be translated to two types of images: "True Color" and "False Color." True Color images are similar to a photograph taken out of a plane window while "False Color" images are closer to a visualization that one would see on a weather broadcast. The other type of imaging, thermal imaging, leads to visualizations where the viewer can see "hotspots" which are generally (but not always) where active fires are. One drawback of all satellite imaging is that it provides little-to-no information on where fires are under control.  